Team Reflection
Project : 10
Project Title: Motor Modelling
Category: E
Team Members: Arshaan Lakhani(H036), Aadhar Patel(H050), Ishan Patel(H051), Paarth
Patel(H051)
Date: 19/04/2026
Q1: What was the single hardest technical challenge you faced in deriving the
mathematical model? How did you resolve it?
The project demanded time and efforts where we explored a lot of new things. First, we started
by understanding the working of all the motors. We analyzed the electrical and mechanical
working behind DC, Stepper and Servo motor which helped us understand the mathematical
model and simulation. The most challenging part of our project was handling the difference in
modeling approach in all 3 motors withing single framework. While the DC motors follow
linear relationship between current, torque and speed. The stepper introduces non-linear due to
its stepping and precise mechanism, while servo have feedback-based control and hence have
different mechanical relation with respect to it’s gears.
Q2: Which Course Outcome (CO1-CO5) was most challenging for your team? Why?
The most challenging outcome for our team was CO4: applying constitutive laws to analyse
dynamic systems. CO4 was tough because it required us to effectively link electrical and
mechanical relationships within each motor. We needed to use laws like torque-current
relations and back EMF-speed dependence. Then, we had to integrate these into differential
equations that represent system behaviour. This got more complicated when we dealt with
different motor types, particularly the nonlinear features of the stepper motor and the feedback-
driven nature of the servo motor.
Q3: What would you do differently if you started the project over?
There were many things which we realized while doing the project which could get better.
Firstly we explored different motors and simulated it on the same system. However, the purpose
of each motor is different and different simulation would help us relate better. We would also
manage to better explore real life implementation by studying existing simulation which would
help us understand and implement the system in a better way.
Q4: What did you learn from this project that a regular textbook problem could NOT
teach you?
This project gave us a practical knowledge of dynamic systems and models which we learn in
classroom. The textbook problem defines the aspects of predefined solution while we
approached open-ended engineering problem which helped us understand the impact of both
electrical and mechanical system in a model. We also dealt with real world approximations and
interpretation which is critical for understanding the implication of engineering in real world
to be able to innovate and contribute in future.
Q5: How did you divide work among team members? Did everyone understand the full
derivation?
We divided the work equally assigning each member a motor type to study and research. We
then would use the respective classroom hours to exchange the information we gathered which
would make everyone responsible for their work and also ignite collaborative learning and
team work. All team members understood the complete modelling and simulation as the
discussions often carried new ideas of implementation.
Q6: What AI tools did you use? For what specific purpose? What did you NOT use AI
for?
We used AI tools such as
ChatGPT for:
• Clarifying theoretical concepts
Claude for:
• Debugging Python code
• Verifying intermediate steps in equations
Google Gemini:
• Pictorial representation of models and implementation of simulation
We did not rely on AI for FBD and final derivations. We deduced the forces by ourselves and
used AI to correct us and see if we are on the right path.
